[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Our high pay society may
be good for our economic state
of affairs, but is it truly
optimal for the human being?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Welcome back.
And today we're talking
about incrementalism.
I'm going start with a
quote by Rick Pitino.
He said, "Make
incremental progress
because change comes not by
the yard, but by the inch."
Now I want to share a
personal story with you
about how I use the
incremental process
to overcome a fear of
heights that I developed.
When I was younger, I
had no issues jumping off
of 40 foot cliffs into water.
But later on in life, having not
done that for quite some time,
I was up in Crater Lake, and
I noticed that I couldn't even
jump off of a 15 foot cliff.
So I tried climbing
down to about 10 feet.
Still couldn't do it.
I never ended up jumping
into Crater Lake,
and this bugged me for a while.
So what I did was
I went back home
and I practiced on
a different ledge.
It was this ledge that creeped
up a hill into some water.
And I started at
the base floor--
one foot off the ground.
OK.
It was simple.
But I jumped off.
I did it.
I managed to do it.
I got out.
I went up roughly two feet.
I jumped off.
I did it.
Fine.
And then I kept going in
this incremental process.
And by the time I realized
it, I was at 20 feet
again, jumping off 20
foot cliffs into the water
because I approached
it incrementally.
Bit by bit, my comfort
zone was allowed
to go with me on this journey.
So there's something beautiful
about taking your comfort
with you.
About how the incremental
process allows your body
to feel more confident in
what its engaged in as well.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So today, we're
solving a riddle.
There's two aspects
to this riddle.
First part is, should I be
the tortoise or the hare.
Second part is, is this
life or is it a race?
If you're not familiar
with the story
of the tortoise
and the hare, it's
basically a turtle and a
rabbit that decide to race.
The race starts.
The rabbit takes off, obviously
much faster than the turtle.
But the turtle is
going incrementally
towards that goal.
But there's so much ego
and hubris in this rabbit
that he takes off straight
for the goal line,
but he stops short.
The rabbit believes he's
going to win this hands down,
so he decides, I
can even take a nap,
and I'll still wake up
time to beat this turtle.
But to his great
horror, he wakes up
and realizes that
the turtle is already
crossing the finish line.
He was too late.
Now, this is just
a parable, but I
believe the point is that in
our high, fast-paced society,
we have to ask ourselves,
are we missing the point?
Is life a journey, or is it
all about that destination?
Do we really need to be
skyrocketing towards that goal,
or is there something that
we're missing along the way?
Let's use the example you need
to get from LA, all the way up
into the redwoods of
California, and there's
two ways you can go.
One is by taking a
really fast train.
Let's say this train
goes 200 miles an hour.
It goes so fast that there
is no scenery, really.
It's all just a blur.
So you're not taking
in any of the nature.
You're not taking in
any of the landmarks.
Now you'll get to that
destination far quicker,
but what have you missed?
The other option was,
you could take a bicycle
and ride it up Route 1,
that windy, slow road.
That gorgeous road where the
mountains meet the water,
where the ocean crashes its
waves against the rocks.
The mist going into the air.
You can see the
rainbow through it.
You can smell the salt water.
And on the other side, you see
all this lush nature, the flora
and fauna.
You can smell it.
You can hear the
songs on it, and you
can drink in every little nuance
of the path of the journey.
Is our high and fast-paced
society causing us illness?
As we see, there's far more
stress than in the slower
paced societies.
And this stress seems
to worsen or increase
the risk of conditions like
obesity, heart disease,
Alzheimer's,
diabetes, depression,
gastrointestinal
problems, and even asthma.
It also lowers the
quality of life.
Just to put it in
perspective, in your life,
if you live 80 years,
you will likely
eat 35 tons of food
or 90,000 meals.
You will likely bend over to
tie your shoes roughly 25,000
to 50,000 times, or just
bend over in general 50
to 75,000 times.
And you will likely take
672 million breaths.
If you live to 80, all
of these things add up.
They're either going to
add up to habits that are
good or bad for your health.
Because take a snapshot of who
and what you are right now--
your health, your look,
everything about you,
and you are literally a
snapshot of all the decisions--
all the decisions that
you made your entire life
leading up to this point.
Because habits truly matter.
Now there are statistics
showing that roughly 45%
of the population by 2035 will
have one heart-related disease.
Heart disease is the number
one killer in the US,
but Alzheimer's
is not far behind.
Respiratory issues,
diabetes, cancer,
and more, even chronic pain,
anxiety, and depression,
they're all on the rise.
But they're all
truly manageable.
They're all truly preventable,
through the tortoise approach.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So now let's take a look
at how our diet adds up
over time, by looking at a
film called "Food Matters."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There was a Swiss doctor by
the name of Paul Kouchakoff.
He was the first to
show in the 1930s
that if you ate a diet that
was more than 51% cooked
food, that your body
would react to the food
as if it was being invaded
by a foreign organism.
Dr. Kouchakoff was the
first to demonstrate
that if 51% of your
meals were raw,
that you would have
no leukocytosis,
or you would actually have
no white blood cell reaction.
So your immune
system would not be
activated with a false alarm.
Because we're dealing with
so many immune system issues
today, we have to make
sure that at least 51%
of every meal that
we have is raw
so that we don't overburden that
already burdened immune system.
>> How can you build a building
that you expect the last 100
years if you put poor
building materials in?
Same thing with your body.
How do you expect your body to
last for a long and enjoyable
lifetime if you don't
put the proper building
blocks in there?
Everybody knows,
we are what we eat.
If you eat garbage, you're
going to get garbage.
>> If I eat a lousy
bread roll every day,
have a cup of tea for
breakfast, and a piece of toast,
a sugary drink for
mid-morning, a donut for lunch,
and takeaway fried
chicken at night,
I'm going to be massively
deficient in a whole range
of nutrients.
And that's only one day.
So I'm going to need something
in the way of supplements.
So the next day, I
eat salad, until it's
coming out of my ears to
try and make up for it.
But I never ever correct
the deficiency that
occurred from the day before.
There was always going to be
a residual problem somewhere.
So you cannot punish yourselves
without having to pay for it
sooner or later.
>> So you've heard
this all before.
You are what you eat.
But the question we need
to start asking ourselves,
whether it's do I
eat conventional food
with pesticides and
genetically-modified material
or organic food.
Is the excuse really money?
And how does that
add up over time
when you balance it
with health care costs?
Ask yourself, do you
sacrifice very healthy sleep
and lifestyles such as eating
and movement habits for work,
leisure, socializing
with friends?
All of these are
good when in balance.
But it's not all about diet.
It's also about
movement, and that's
when I started becoming aware
of this man, Stephen Jepson.
He founded
NeverLeavethePlayground.com.
And he was showing how balance,
coordination, and challenge
are truly good and
optimal for our health.
He started by taking
people over the age of 65
and working with their balance.
And he was doing this
because there's a statistic.
Over the age of
65, people who fall
have much more of a
chance of actually
that being a mortal accident.
By 2030, statistics are showing
that roughly 60,000 Americans
over the age of 65
will die from falls.
What's the solution?
The solution is to make
real incremental progress
towards better health.
The way of doing this, at least
from Steven Jepson's method,
is by working on balance and
working on bilateral training,
such as juggling or using your
less dominant hand in whatever
task you're employed with.
Allows for the balancing of
both hemispheres of the body
and more mental acuteness
and more mental clarity.
And what Stephen started doing
for these elders over the age
of 65 was he would sit them
in a chair, no shoes, and two
buckets in front of them.
One is filled with marbles
and tiny little toys
and the other is empty.
So they would take their toes
to pick up these little toys
and drop them in
the other bucket.
But then, he would bump up
the challenge incrementally.
So he would stand them up.
So now they didn't have the
chair to hold their balance.
So now it's the same
task, but bumped up
in its challenge
level a little bit.
So this incremental
process was so incredible
and people were feeling
that they were actually
bouncing back with their
balance far quicker
than they ever imagined.
So the incremental
process is not as slow
as we may think it is.
But one of the most
beautiful things that
started popping up
out of these practices
was many of these
individuals that
had a neurodegenerative disease,
like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's,
or dementia, would
actually notice not just
a halting of their
symptoms but a reversal.
Because these practices,
linking the body in the mind,
even with very
minute tasks, starts
to strengthen
mind-body maps, which
is the linking of
the mind and the body
together on those tasks.
So these are the
incremental processes
that we can start
employing in our lives that
will add up in a good way.
But what exactly do they
add up to in regards
to our emotional state, in
regards to our self-confidence,
and what we believe
about ourselves?
Let's take a look at
what Dr. Joe Dispenza has
to say on an episode
of "Open Minds,"
called "Deprogramming
Collective Beliefs."
>> Our brain is an artifact.
It's a record of all the things
we've learned and experienced.
Our brain is a reflection
of our external environment.
So if you take a
series of thoughts
that are connected to
a series of feelings,
you have a thought
that's connected
to a feeling, a
thought connected
to a feeling, a thought that's
connected to a feeling, that's
called an attitude.
So attitudes are
shortened states of being.
Does that make sense?
So if you take an attitude,
an attitude, an attitude,
and you string
attitudes together,
that creates a belief.
Now a belief is
just the thought you
keep thinking over and over
again until you hardwire it
in your brain.
And beliefs are created
from past experiences.
So the very boundaries of
our beliefs are how we feel.
So when our beliefs
are challenged,
it usually doesn't feel right.
So if how you think and how you
feel creates a state of being,
and an attitude is
a state of being,
and you're chunking
different attitudes together,
then a belief is an
extended state of being.
Does that make sense?
So if you keep
thinking and feeling
and feeling and thinking,
as we said in the last show,
you condition the body to
become the subconscious mind.
The body becomes the mind.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So that's truly fascinating
how Joe Dispenza was mentioning
that the body is the
subconscious mind.
We condition the body to
become the subconscious mind.
So what he's saying there is
that our body, in flesh, blood,
and behavior acts out a
symbolic or a metaphorical link
between the body and
the subconscious mind,
a way of accessing
our subconscious
through the active and
intelligent use of our body.
But the subconscious
mind is truly
the sleeping driver behind
most of our decisions
and our actions.
And John Dryden said, "We
first make our habits,
and then our habits make us."
And this is something
that's not new.
I didn't come up with this.
In fact, if you look back into
the ancient movement modalities
of Tai Chi, martial
arts, yoga, all of these
were taking the incremental
process of sophisticating
the body movements and
linking it with the mind
and linking it with the breath.
But now, let's take a look at
our modern society, the world
that those ancient movement
modalities were not made for.
Are we living in a
quick fix society,
where all of our ailments,
all of our issues,
all of our inconveniences
should be solved by society,
with little to no
effort on our behalf?
Is that the world
we're living in?
Where we don't want to have
to rise to the occasion,
we want it taken care of so we
can focus on leisure and play
and whatever else we might
want to pay attention to.
Well, let's take a look at what
a Tai Chi master, David Dorian
Ross says in his daily
Tai Chi practices
about how to bring
the mind and the body
together through an incremental
and very spiritual practice.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> These solo routines combine
the refinement of your timing,
coordination, strength, and
balance, with beauty, grace,
and confidence.
The daily practice
program features a routine
that gives you a great
workout for the body,
as well as for the mind.
You see, you have to learn to
focus the mind before you're
able to calm the mind.
The art of Tai Chi teaches
you to focus the mind
through visualization and
the precise coordination
of the body, torso,
head, arms, and legs.
But most importantly, the
daily practice of the solo
forms refresh,
replenish, and refine
the circulation of
Chi, the great stream
of the energy of life.
>> I love what David
Dorian Ross says there.
First, you have to focus the
mind, and then you can comment.
So there is a sequence to how we
unravel the mind from the knot
that its tied in.
If you were to unravel
those restrictions
from the body and the
mind, we can truly
see the expansion
of consciousness.
And the expansion
of consciousness
is truly what we're
after on this path
of discovering and unlocking
our hidden potential.
If we are able to break down
our old habits incrementally
and build up incrementally
these new habits into a new us,
by taking this
tortoise approach,
we can actually see
that the brain drinks
in all of the nuances of
the process of learning
that we're on.
And it prompts
neuroplasticity-- and as we've
seen before on this
program, neuroplasticity
is the ability for the brain to
change its neuronal structure,
to break down old patterns,
and to build up new ones.
This means that the tortoise
approach can literally
change your brain
and change your life.
So what I'm asking of you
is to be that tortoise.
Take that approach.
And take your life a bit slower
and a bit more incremental.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So what I have for you today
is a one-week challenge.
Every single day, we're going to
do something slightly different
in an incremental process.
And if you're that
go getter that
wants to go fast with
everything, remember,
that is not the point here.
The point is to take it slow.
So day 1, all you're going to
do is observe your stressors.
Observe what moments
and situations crop up
that add to your stress
or cause your stress.
You're not going to
do anything about it.
You're just going to take note.
You can either write it down
or keep it in your mind,
but just take note of
what stresses you out.
Day 2, consult with your
list all those things that
stress you out.
And now what I want you to do
is introduce an interrupter,
and that interrupter is
simply one conscious breath.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And all that's going to
do on a subconscious level
is introduce a
little bit of a wedge
between the moment that
the stress starts arising
and the activity that
you have to engage
in that might be stressful.
Day 3, you're going
to do the same thing.
Introduce that
interrupter, that breath,
into those moments of stress.
But you're going to extend
it three to five breaths
and add a smile.
When you smile, this changes
the chemistry inside your body.
Puts you into an altered state.
So this is all you're
going to do on day three.
You're going to
notice those moments.
introduce a wider gap.
You're going to
breathe and smile.
Day 4, same thing.
Introduce that conscious
breath, introduce that smile,
and now you're going
to add an intention.
And the intention is, I
will rise to the occasion.
I will meet this
challenge face to face.
I will overcome it.
But I only want you to
focus on this intention 25%.
So you're going to be focusing
more on your interrupt,
more on your breath and your
smile, and just about 25%
on that challenge.
I will rise to the occasion.
Day 5, you're going to ramp up
that intention to about 50%.
Meaning, you're going to spend
equal amount of time focusing
on your intention as you
will with your breath
and your smile.
Day 6, what I want you to
do is add that interrupter,
but take it with you.
Turn that intention up to 100%.
Today's the day.
You are full bore
rising to the occasion.
You don't need to
spend so much time
introducing a larger and
larger gap because you've
done this before.
It's already in your
subconscious mind.
So what I want you to do is
take your breath and your smile
with you into the activity.
This will teach you how to
integrate these interrupters
into the moments of our stress.
Day 7, turn the
throttle down to 25%.
Well, why wouldn't
we go up to 200%?
500%?
Because that's not
the point of this.
It's already in our
subconscious mind.
We're not here to
overload our system.
So on day 7, you're turning
that throttle, that intention,
I will rise to the
occasion, back down to 25%.
You're still breathing
for your interrupter.
You're still smiling, and
you're bringing it with you,
but you're not trying so
hard to rise to the occasion.
And the reason I'm
telling you to do this
is not because I want
you to be less effective.
I want you to be more effective,
but not have to try as hard.
You can do this, and you'll
realize that the subconscious
mind actually has these
skills already embedded
within them because this is
the entire weekly practice.
On day 7, take that
interrupter with you
and naturally just
rise to the occasion
because you know you can.
And if you follow this schedule
until the next time I see you,
you will have discovered
your hidden stressors
and applied tortoise
medicine to them.
So go be incremental,
go be limitless,
and I'll see you
next time around.
[MUSIC PLAYING]